Running-GroupVPN-on-Raspberry-Pi.md, before:

These instructions are for Raspbian (Raspberry Pi) compiled with vfp and hard
floating point.

## Download and configure GroupVPN

1.  Download groupvpn/ and extract for Raspberry Pi

    ```bash
    wget http://www.acis.ufl.edu/~ptony82/ipop/ipop-rpi_14.01.pre3.tgz
    tar xvzf ipop-rpi_14.01.pre3.tgz
    cd ipop-rpi_14.01.pre3
    ```
2.  Update the `config.json` file with proper credentials. For GroupVPN it is 
    important to use a different IPv4 address for each machine (e.g.
    192.168.5.1 for machine 1 and 192.168.5.2 for machine 2).

    ```bash
    {
        "ip4": "192.168.5.1",
        "xmpp_username": "username@gmail.com",
        "xmpp_password": "enter-password-here",
        "xmpp_host": "talk.google.com"
    }
    ```

## Running GroupVPN

1. Enable ipv6

    ```bash
    sudo modprobe ipv6
    ```

1.  Launch ipop-tincan

    ```bash
    sudo sh -c './ipop-tincan 1> out.log 2> err.log &'
    ```

2.  Lunch the appropriate controller

    ```bash
    ./gvpn_controller -c config.json
    ```

    [[controller.png]]

3.  Check the network devices and ip address for your device

    ```bash
    /sbin/ifconfig ipop
    ```

    [[ifconfig.png]]

## Closing GroupVPN

1.  Kill groupvpn

    ```bash
    pkill ipop-tincan
    pkill gvpn_controller.py
    ```

**Run groupvpn on another machine using same credentials and they will connect
with each other.**

Commit message:

Now adds netcat to check status

Running-GroupVPN-on-Raspberry-Pi.md, after:

These instructions are for Raspbian (Raspberry Pi) compiled with vfp and hard
floating point.

## Download and configure GroupVPN

1.  Download groupvpn/ and extract for Raspberry Pi

    ```bash
    wget http://www.acis.ufl.edu/~ptony82/ipop/ipop-rpi_14.01.pre3.tgz
    tar xvzf ipop-rpi_14.01.pre3.tgz
    cd ipop-rpi_14.01.pre3
    ```
2.  Update the `config.json` file with proper credentials. For GroupVPN it is 
    important to use a different IPv4 address for each machine (e.g.
    192.168.5.1 for machine 1 and 192.168.5.2 for machine 2).

    ```bash
    {
        "ip4": "192.168.5.1",
        "xmpp_username": "username@gmail.com",
        "xmpp_password": "enter-password-here",
        "xmpp_host": "talk.google.com"
    }
    ```

## Running GroupVPN

1. Enable ipv6

    ```bash
    sudo modprobe ipv6
    ```

1.  Launch ipop-tincan

    ```bash
    sudo sh -c './ipop-tincan 1> out.log 2> err.log &'
    ```

2.  Start the appropriate controller

    ```bash
    ./gvpn_controller.py -c config.json &> log.txt &
    ```

3.  Check on the current status of your network using netcat

    ```bash
    netcat -u 127.0.0.1 5800
    {"m":"get_state"}
    ```

4.  Check the network devices and ip address for your device

    ```bash
    /sbin/ifconfig ipop
    ```

    [[ifconfig.png]]

## Closing GroupVPN

1.  Kill groupvpn

    ```bash
    pkill ipop-tincan
    pkill gvpn_controller.py
    ```

**Run groupvpn on another machine using same credentials and they will connect
with each other.**
